Before we actually get into creating the automation framework,
let's answer the most important question,
which is why do all of this work of creating a framework?
Why not just record a test using Selenium IDE?
It seems like that would be an easy way to go and why do
we have to write all this code? Well,
there's a few reasons why recording doesn't work.
Let's go over some of those.
One of the major reasons is test brittleness.
So if you look at a simple diagram here,
you can see that if you decided that you were just going to record these
tests and you were going to use some kind of framework,
then your test would directly depend on your web application.
So what happens if your web app changes in some way?
Let's say that the structure of the application changes
significantly or even just minor little changes. Well,
if you have a large number of tests and all of those tests depend on,
let's say, a particular element on a page being named a certain thing and that
changes, all of those tests are suddenly going to break.
Now you're going to have to modify that code in all of those
tests that you had recorded and played back.
That's really the big disadvantage of recording because recording is
going to grab the element as we've seen by the most sufficient way
that it can find throughout the element,
which is not abstracting away that idea of graphing an element.
So if the element changes all of those tests break. You're copying
a lot of code when you're recording. And if you've been developing
very long, copy and paste is a red flag or what they call a code
smell to warn you you're doing something that's going to break in
multiple places.
Now let's think about what happens when you put an
automation framework in place.
The only modification I've made to this diagram is I've
created an abstraction layer, and that's what the
automation framework is doing for you.
It's primarily giving you an abstraction from the actual web application.
We'll see in a minute here how we actually still want to model
the application using the page object model.
But the idea here is that your tests now depend on the
automation framework, not the application itself.
You're using the automation framework almost as
internal language for writing your tests.
Since your tests depend on that automation framework, if we run through
that scenario where something changes in your web app, then you just
have to update that method in your automation framework that
manipulates that object in your web app.
So for example, let's say that an ID changes or the name of some field
that you're using on an element changes, you only break at that
framework level, not throughout all of your test.
Your tests can still stay the same. Hopefully, you've only created one
reference to it in your automation framework, and you've abstracted away the
idea of how to grab that element or use that element.
So all of those tests are depending on the framework, and you
only have to change it in one place because it's not a
duplication of dependencies in your web app.
Now this chart is by no means scientific in any way, but it's just an
example of some observations that I've personally made working with a
lot of different organizations on their test automation frameworks and
seeing from experience how things go.
What I've found is that recording starts out to be much
faster than developing a framework.
It's very easy to get going with automation frameworks by
starting off just doing some recording.
In fact, you start off really,
really fast. But what ends up happening is because of that test
brittleness and because the test that you record starts to get more
complex, the time it takes to record starts to go up significantly, and
you're not able to reuse a lot of what you've already recorded. So you
really don't gain any benefit.
In fact,
it starts to slow down just because those tests start breaking and
breaking, and you're constantly going back and rerecording things or
modifying those tests. Now on the framework side,
you start off with a big hit.
It definitely takes a lot more time to use the framework or
build the framework than it does to record.
But as you start building up that framework and as you start
building up all the functionality of that framework and really
finding ways to make your code efficient and tests very succinct,
you end up saving a large amount of time.
You get to the point where it's very easy to write automated tests because you already have all of the supporting framework in place.